#summary Using scanscrobbler
#labels Featured
== Using ScanScrobbler ==

Using ScanScrobbler is pretty straightforward. But here's a brief guide.
  # open ScanScrobbler from your phone application menu
  # On the initial run, you'll be asked to input your last.fm account name and password. Please be aware these are currently stored on your phone in a database in plain text. If you have concerns about this, please do not use ScanScrobbler. Encrypting this information is on my todo list.
  # After entering your last.fm details, you'll be able to select one of the main program commands.
  # In most cases you'll start by selecting _Scan a barcode_.
  # ScanScrobbler now attempts to launch UpCode, assuming it is installed. 
  # Once UpCode has launched, you will need to open the Options menu, select the entry marked _1D/2D_, and then select the 1D barcode format
  # Hold the phone a few inches above the barcode you wish to scan, it's best to hold it directly above, eliminating any angles. Move the phone towards and away from the barcode until you hear a beep, indicating UpCode has successfully read the barcode.
  # Answer 'No' to the _Open site?_ dialogue. (It displays this as it believes you may be reading a 2d barcode featuring a website address)
  # Exit UpCode, to return to ScanScrobbler.
  # ScanScrobbler attempts to connect to the internet, and identify an album from the barcode. If successful you'll be presented with a prompt asking if you want to scrobble the tracks.
  # Answer OK to scrobble all the tracks on the album (scrobbling just some tracks is planned)
  # ScanScrobbler will inform you of what tracks are being scrobbled, and when he scrobbling is complete

Rather than using UpCode to enter a barcode, you can also try entering the digits written below the barcode manually. 
  # Select the option _Enter barcode manually_
  # Be aware that some barcodes omit a single first or final digit from the written numerals. These are always picked up by the barcode reader. Sometimes this can lead to discrepancies in the musicbrainz database, or result in a barcode that is present not being found when entered manually.
  # Enter the 12/13 digits below the barcode using the numberpad on your phone
  # Select OK, and proceed as from step 8 above
